=head1 NAME

apt-upgradable - Yet another munin plugin to monitor pending upgrades using apt

=head1 APPLICABLE SYSTEMS

Linux servers using the apt package manager with aptitude installed (Ubuntu and
Debian derivatives mostly)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Comparison to the other default munin plugins `apt` and `apt_all`. First, both
use plain C<apt> to determine the upgrades whereas this plugin uses
C<aptitude>. The reason to use aptitude was because of it's useful search
syntax, which simplified the plugin.

=over

=item *

apt

This plugin does not generate a graph. It's only used to generate warnings.


=item *

apt_all

This plugin graphs pending upgrades separated by I<section>. C<apt-upgradable>
groups them by importance. Currently only the groups "essential" and "normal"
and "important" are available.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

B<NOTE>: You may need to schedule updates of apt (apt update) to get the proper
values. On Ubuntu systems this is enabled by default!

No configuration is required by default. All parameters are optional.

The plugin assumes that aptitude is available under C</usr/bin/aptitude>. If
it's not available in that location, you can override it with the config
variable C<aptitude_path>.

You can change the colors if you want using C<essential_color> and
C<upgrades_color>.

Additionally, it's possible to manually specify a list of packages which are
considered important for this system. The variables for this are: C<important>
and C<important_color>. This is a simple space separated list of package names.

Having non-zero important packages is considered a warning!

Here is a full config example:

    [apt-upgradable]
        env.aptitude_path /usr/local/sbin/aptitude
        env.essential_color 0000ff
        env.upgrades_color ffff00
        env.important postgresql apache2
        env.important_color 000000

=head1 INTERPRETATION

The graph shows packages that can be upgraded on your system. In general you
would want all your packages at the newest version, as this value is
increasing, you would want to plan an upgrade procedure.

=head1 MAGIC MARKERS

  #%# family=auto
  #%# capabilities=autoconf

=head1 BUGS

None known.

=head1 AUTHOR

Michel Albert <michel % albert.lu>

=head1 LICENSE

GPLv2

